README.md, before:

# F1 Race Replay 🏎️ 🏁

A Python application for visualizing Formula 1 race telemetry and replaying race events with interactive controls and a graphical interface.

![Race Replay Preview](./resources/preview.png)

## Features

- **Race Replay Visualization:** Watch the race unfold with real-time driver positions on a rendered track.
- **Leaderboard:** See live driver positions and current tyre compounds.
- **Lap & Time Display:** Track the current lap and total race time.
- **Driver Status:** Drivers who retire or go out are marked as "OUT" on the leaderboard.
- **Interactive Controls:** Pause, rewind, fast forward, and adjust playback speed using on-screen buttons or keyboard shortcuts.
- **Legend:** On-screen legend explains all controls.
- **Driver Telemetry Insights:** View speed, gear, DRS status, and current lap for selected drivers when selected on the leaderboard.

## Controls

- **Pause/Resume:** SPACE or Pause button
- **Rewind/Fast Forward:** ← / → or Rewind/Fast Forward buttons
- **Playback Speed:** ↑ / ↓ or Speed button (cycles through 0.5x, 1x, 2x, 4x)
- **Set Speed Directly:** Keys 1–4

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- [FastF1](https://github.com/theOehrly/Fast-F1)
- [Arcade](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/)
- numpy

Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

FastF1 cache folder will be created automatically on first run. If it is not created, you can manually create a folder named `.fastf1-cache` in the project root.

## Usage

Run the main script and specify the year and round:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12
```

The application will load a pre-computed telemetry dataset if you have run it before for the same event. To force re-computation of telemetry data, use the `--refresh-data` flag:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12 --refresh-data
```

## File Structure

- `main.py` — Entry point, handles session loading and starts the replay.
- `src/lib/tyres.py` — Type definitions for telemetry data structures.
- `src/f1_data.py` — Telemetry loading, processing, and frame generation.
- `src/arcade_replay.py` — Visualization and UI logic.

## Customization

- Change track width, colors, and UI layout in `src/arcade_replay.py`.
- Adjust telemetry processing in `src/f1_data.py`.

## Contributing

- Open pull requests for UI improvements or new features.
- Report issues on GitHub.

# Known Issues

- Occasional telemetry data gaps cause accuracy issues with the leaderboard

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

No copyright infringement intended. Formula 1 and related trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All data used is sourced from publicly available APIs and is used for educational and non-commercial purposes only.

---

Built with ❤️ by [Tom Shaw](https://tomshaw.dev)

Commit message:

Improved Leaderboard accuracy during race & circuit rotation
The leaderboard is now calculated by plotting the drivers' progress along the track instead of relying on the "Distance" and "RelativeDistance" data from the telemetry which can sometimes be inaccurate in relation to the XY position data that we see on-screen.

Also, the circuits are now rotated to their correct orientation that is seen when the circuits are shown on TV or online. :)

README.md, after:

# F1 Race Replay 🏎️ 🏁

A Python application for visualizing Formula 1 race telemetry and replaying race events with interactive controls and a graphical interface.

![Race Replay Preview](./resources/preview.png)

## Features

- **Race Replay Visualization:** Watch the race unfold with real-time driver positions on a rendered track.
- **Leaderboard:** See live driver positions and current tyre compounds.
- **Lap & Time Display:** Track the current lap and total race time.
- **Driver Status:** Drivers who retire or go out are marked as "OUT" on the leaderboard.
- **Interactive Controls:** Pause, rewind, fast forward, and adjust playback speed using on-screen buttons or keyboard shortcuts.
- **Legend:** On-screen legend explains all controls.
- **Driver Telemetry Insights:** View speed, gear, DRS status, and current lap for selected drivers when selected on the leaderboard.

## Controls

- **Pause/Resume:** SPACE or Pause button
- **Rewind/Fast Forward:** ← / → or Rewind/Fast Forward buttons
- **Playback Speed:** ↑ / ↓ or Speed button (cycles through 0.5x, 1x, 2x, 4x)
- **Set Speed Directly:** Keys 1–4

## Requirements

- Python 3.8+
- [FastF1](https://github.com/theOehrly/Fast-F1)
- [Arcade](https://api.arcade.academy/en/latest/)
- numpy

Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

FastF1 cache folder will be created automatically on first run. If it is not created, you can manually create a folder named `.fastf1-cache` in the project root.

## Usage

Run the main script and specify the year and round:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12
```

The application will load a pre-computed telemetry dataset if you have run it before for the same event. To force re-computation of telemetry data, use the `--refresh-data` flag:
```bash
python main.py --year 2025 --round 12 --refresh-data
```

## File Structure

- `main.py` — Entry point, handles session loading and starts the replay.
- `src/lib/tyres.py` — Type definitions for telemetry data structures.
- `src/f1_data.py` — Telemetry loading, processing, and frame generation.
- `src/arcade_replay.py` — Visualization and UI logic.

## Customization

- Change track width, colors, and UI layout in `src/arcade_replay.py`.
- Adjust telemetry processing in `src/f1_data.py`.

## Contributing

- Open pull requests for UI improvements or new features.
- Report issues on GitHub.

# Known Issues

- The leaderboard appears to be inaccurate for the first few corners of the race. The leaderboard is also temporarily affected by a driver going in the pits. At the end of the race the leadeboard is sometimes affected by the drivers final x,y positions being further ahead than other drivers. These issues are known issues caused by innacuracies in the telemetry and being worked on for future releases. Its likely that these issues will be fixed in stages as improving the leaderboard accuracy is a complex task.

## 📝 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

No copyright infringement intended. Formula 1 and related trademarks are the property of their respective owners. All data used is sourced from publicly available APIs and is used for educational and non-commercial purposes only.

---

Built with ❤️ by [Tom Shaw](https://tomshaw.dev)
